DOCSP-19979-compass-telemetry-options (#697)
mongodb/docs-compass: source/settings/telemetry.txt

.. _compass-telemetry:

===========================
Configure Telemetry Options
===========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

|compass-short| collects anonymous aggregated usage data to improve
MongoDB products. |compass-short| collects this information by default,
but you can disable this data collection.

About this Task
---------------

|compass-short| tracks the following data:

> - The type of MongoDB deployment |compass-short| is connected to. For
>   example, Enterprise Edition, Community Edition, or Atlas Data Lake.
> 
> - User actions performed in |compass-short|, such as creating
>   collections and indexes. |compass-short| only tracks the general
>   action performed, and does not track field values or namespaces.

Reviewer: [suggestion] for active voice, although I can see this being a case where passive voice is appropriate

```suggestion
- The type of MongoDB deployment that you connect |compass-short| to. For
  example, Enterprise Edition, Community Edition, or Atlas Data Lake.

- Actions that you perform in |compass-short|, such as creating
  collections and indexes. |compass-short| only tracks the general
  action and does not track field values or namespaces.
```

Author: Thanks for these suggestions. I think using active voice works here, and this wording is an improvement!

- Errors.

|compass-short| *does not* track:

- IP addresses, hostnames, usernames, or credentials.

- Queries run in |compass-short|.

- Data stored in your MongoDB deployment.

> - Personal identifiable information.

Reviewer: Since all of these list items are fragments, I think we can leave out the periods re [the style guideline on periods ](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#periods)

Author: Fixed

For more information, see `MongoDB's Privacy Policy
<https://www.mongodb.com/legal/privacy-policy?tck=docs_mongosh>`__.

.. tip::

   |compass-short| Isolated Edition automatically disables telemetry.
   For more information on different |compass-short| editions, see
   :ref:`compass-feature-table`.

Steps
-----

You can toggle telemetry in either: 

> - The |compass-short| :ref:`Settings panel <compass-settings-reference>`

Reviewer: [question] is there a reason why this is called the Settings panel in this line but the Settings window below? Is there a way to make this consistent?

```suggestion
- The |compass-short| :ref:`Settings panel <compass-settings-reference>`
```

Author: Standardized to "window".

- :ref:`Command line options <cli-options>`

- :ref:`Configuration file options <config-file>`

Settings Panel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To toggle telemetry from the |compass-short| settings:

.. procedure:: 
   :style: normal
   

>    .. step:: Open the Settings window

Reviewer: [suggestion] I would suggest adding a period to all of the step headings

```suggestion
   .. step:: Open the Settings window.
```

Author: Updated

      
      a. In the |compass-short| top menu bar, click :guilabel:`MongoDB Compass`
      
      b. Click :guilabel:`Settings`
      
         .. figure:: /images/compass/settings-panel-location.png
            :scale: 40% 
            :alt: Settings panel location under the MongoDB Compass system menu

      .. tip::

         Alternatively, you can use keyboard shortcuts to open the 
         :guilabel:`Settings` panel: 
         
         - Windows / Linux: ``Ctrl`` + ``,``
         
         - Mac: ``⌘`` + ``,``

   .. step:: In the :guilabel:`Settings` window, click :guilabel:`Privacy`

>    

Reviewer: [question] do you think it would be helpful to add a screenshot of the window here?

Author: My preference would be to omit the screenshot to help future-proof this in the event that the UI changes. I added a bit further clarification to say that "Privacy" is in the left pane of the window, which should hopefully ensure that users can find it.

.. _compass-telemetry:

===========================
Configure Telemetry Options
===========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: tutorial

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

|compass-short| collects anonymous aggregated usage data to improve
MongoDB products. |compass-short| collects this information by default,
but you can disable this data collection.

About this Task
---------------

|compass-short| telemetry tracks the following data:

- The type of MongoDB deployment that you connect |compass-short| to.
  For example, Enterprise Edition, Community Edition, or Atlas Data
  Lake.

- Actions that you perform in |compass-short|, such as creating
  collections and indexes. Telemetry only tracks the general action
  performed, and does not track field values or namespaces.

- Errors.

|compass-short| *does not* track:

> - IP addresses, hostnames, usernames, or credentials

Reviewer 2: We actually do track the hostname on connection in Compass. We use this information to identify an associated Atlas org when processing our telemetry data.

Author: That makes sense! Updating.

> - Queries run in |compass-short|

Reviewer 2: We will soon start tracking queries generated from the GenAI feature in an anonymized way. Maybe we can reword this so it says we won't be storing queries in a way that can be associated with the user?
